[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's something deep in
my being that wishes to serve.
There's something in my
purpose, my soul's purpose,
that is about service.
And I don't know if that's
the case for everyone.
But I know that my desire to
serve has served me very well.
My desire to serve is the
basis for much of my abundance.
I can't really point to
any abundance in my life
that has come through doing
anything other than trying
to be of service to people.
>> If you'd like to have
more financial abundance,
you truly have to have a
value on serving people.
You have to have
a value on wealth.
And you have to have
value on yourself.
If those are not
in your top values,
you're probably going to bang
your head against the wall
and keep having these same
things keep happening.
>> I was asked to speak about
my financial success when I was
very young in my early 20s.
So I was put in
the position to get
in front of people
and share how I
was able to earn six figures
a year in my early 20s.
And then people--
I saw people's lights went on.
There were people
in the audience that
were in their 30s,
40s, 50s, 60s, and 70s
when I was in real estate.
And in my early 20s,
I was asked to share
what I was doing, what I was
thinking, what I was feeling.
What was my daily ritual like?
What was I doing to
get those results?
Because people
wanted those results.
And so I was given
the opportunity to,
again, just use the
communication skills
that came easy for me and just
say, hey, here's what I did.
And here's what I do.
And here's how I think.
And this is not what
I thought before.
And this is what I think now.
And this is why I think now.
>> So I had a young
guy, for example,
who was speaking to
an important group.
And he was nervous.
He was sweating.
He was closed down.
And I said, what's going on?
He said, well, I want to
prove that I'm valuable.
I said, OK, that
is the key word--
prove-- because
it's about himself.
I said, you have
information they don't.
What if we shift that word
and swapped in "to share"?
So it's not "to prove."
It's "to share," which is about
service, to help, to give.
So he reframed his intention
from "to prove" to "to share."
And all of a sudden, he relaxed.
It was about service.
It was about giving.
It was about helping,
providing information to people
who didn't have that before.
So it made him feel better.
It made them feel better.
And it made the
speech transcendent.
>> Good people hold themselves
back because they think being
powerful means becoming
some kind of a dictator.
And actually, I think the
total opposite is true.
I think if you have somebody
in your past who's a dictator,
it's because that person
had a side of themselves
that was very small
and powerless and tiny.
And that person was suffering
from a lack of vision.
That person might just have
been a horrible human being.
I don't know what made
them what they are.
But don't let that model of a
dictator that's in your past
keep you from
claiming your power.
Power is not about that.
One of my quotes business quotes
is from Paul Newman, who said,
always take the work seriously.
Never take yourself seriously.
And I think that's a
great motto to live by.
The more you can approach
your life, your friends,
your community, and yourself
with some open-heartedness
and some humor, the better
life you're going to have.
>> It's very easy with
self-help and self-development
and personal development
to get serious.
I mean, who laughs in yoga?
Everyone's so
serious about yoga.
But years ago, I took a class.
And it was just
great because there
was a lot of laughing
in it when we
couldn't get a
position or the teacher
was explaining something.
And it was such a freeing
class because it didn't
have to be so self-important.
And I think it's a great sign.
If you're having any kind of
humor through the process,
you're going to move
so much more quickly.
>> A powerful tool
for living an aligned,
abundant life is amusement.
Imagine how seriously we
take ourselves all the time.
When you have a
sense of amusement,
you bring a lightness to
your life, a lightheartedness
to your life.
And that spreads pretty quickly.
Think of a room you walk into
where everyone's very serious.
And you add a little
bit of amusement.
It doesn't have to be too much,
just enough to bring lightness
into the world, into your life.
It really makes living fun.
It makes it joyous.
And it really increases your
sense of abundance in life.
>> I would watch a
James Bond movie.
And I would see James Bond
tied down to something
as some evil tyrant is about
to burn him in two with a laser
beam.
And here he is.
He says something
hilarious, silly, gleefully.
I know it's a movie.
But the idea of facing
death, the worst thing that
can happen, being burned
in two, and putting out
some smirk, some light humor,
some giggle, some joy--
for me, humor is the
wink of the universe.
It's the wink.
It's the deep wink in our being.
>> If you see the Dalai Lama all
the time, he's always laughing.
And I think that shows you.
You have to be able to laugh
at yourself more than anything.
Pretty much all the real
big spiritual teachers and--
they all laugh at
themselves and tell stories
about themselves and all
the dumb things they did
and how they've learned
from those things.
And I think that's essential.
>> So I can't think of anything
else I would rather do than
to help people find out what
they're really here for, help
them identify what is
really most meaningful,
most inspiring, that they
can have the most gratitude
and love for their life about,
and allow them to share that
with the world.
And helping people
do that, helping
them get what they
want in life like that
is more than rewarding
than you can imagine.
>> The ironic thing was,
when I was in that state
of vulnerability and surrender
to this higher aspect
of myself, I felt no
shame, no sense of failure,
nothing negative.
I felt completely loved
and supported and nourished
and forgiven and understood.
There was no
judgment whatsoever.
It was just the most beautiful,
loving, energetic presence
that would occupy my body.
And when it did, I just felt
totally understood and totally
loved.
>> I do believe from experience
that being able to be
vulnerable, being able to face
that vulnerability is a real
source of strength.
>> When people live
authentically and congruently
to their highest values, they
grow the greatest self-worth.
They get the most inspiration.
They become the most profound
in their impact on the planet.
And they're destined to leave
a legacy that's immortalizing
their outcome in life.
>> At the end of the
day, we're all one.
They're proving it.
Physics is proving it.
We're all attached.
Everything's connected.
>> And I honestly believe
when you talk about purpose,
what's the purpose of life--
and when we think about
purpose, we think of,
is my purpose to be
a doctor or a lawyer?
It's some kind of doing thing.
And what I've learned
is that everybody
has the exact same purpose.
>> It's only going to take
a few people to show that we
don't have to live in scarcity.
We don't have to be afraid.
We don't have to hoard.
That's not what
abundance is about.
We can be generous.
We can be gracious.
We can be compassionate.
We can be giving not only
to others, but to ourselves.
That is part of abundance.
Sharing, doing it together,
being a community--
that is part of abundance.
We don't do it on our own.
>> I think we were all meant to
be channels of our higher self
to bring energy into the world
for an agenda that we know
nothing about.
So the way my life is
unfolding, I have no agenda.
I don't know where
it's going to be.
And I could never
have planned it.
But it's going
according to an agenda.
I can see how all the
different activities that I'm
involved in all fit together
like a music performance
that I could never
have constructed.
And all I'm doing is
getting out of the way.
It's almost like the
highest you could possibly
be in your life is--
nothing is completely
out of the way
and allowing this energy
to work through you.
And I think that
that is my purpose.
And I believe it's
everyone's purpose--
is to connect with that energy
and let it run through us.
>> So find out what you want
to do, where you want to go,
and then let it go.
And let it start to occur.
And be patient.
And write your story.
Turn the page, and
write another page.
And stop worrying about
instantaneous gratification
and being a victim
if it hasn't yet.
Do the work.
Row, row, row the boat,
and life is amazing.
>> For me, abundance is having
a total connection with this
loving, supportive, nurturing
energy that comes through me
and allowing it to work through
me and manifest however it
wants to manifest
to heal the world.
>> Everything that we're looking
for in this world really--
what we're looking for is
a quality of our true self.
And when you know that, when
you know that we're not just
here to search for happiness
but to follow our joy,
when you know that we're not
just here to look for love
but to actually be
a loving person,
then we can turn it around.
And then we can
see that actually,
instead of having, having,
having in order to be,
what if we started
with the being?
What if we said, today I'm
going to be a loving person?
Today I'm going to
be guided by love.
>> All the disciplines,
the 29,000,
almost 30,000 books
that I've now devoured,
have led me to see the matrix,
the inner hidden order that
goes on in daily life that
most people never get to see.
Most people are
like animals looking
for that which is unobtainable
and trying to avoid
that which is unavoidable.
But I now realize that
that's not what it's about.
It's about love.
And love is a balancing
force in the universe
that maximizes the growth
of all biologic organisms,
including human beings.
And that's why-- as my
mother was trying to tell me,
when she just loved
me and appreciated me,
that was the key to growth.
That was the key
of transformation.
That's when I transcended
my darkest moment
and turned on the light.
That's when I realized I was
going to go out and master
this thing.
That's when I woke up my
vision and my mastery.
>> If you can just be present
and curious to some person
in your life who might have
very different values to you,
you will bring a lot of
richness to yourself.
I think that we get very
actually ego caught up
in having to convince everybody
to think the exact same way we
do.
And that's just
another ego trap.
It's as much of a
trap as the cubicle.
It's as much of a trap
as anything else--
is this idea that
everybody in the world
has to be converted to
our particular world view.
And the more that you can stay
open, curious, lighthearted,
sit down with a friend--
that friend might think what
you do for a living is crazy.
That's totally OK.
It's totally OK.
Be curious.
Be open.
Make it about them.
Talk to them about what they're
doing, feeling, thinking.
It doesn't always
have to be about you.
And it doesn't always have to be
about you recruiting everybody
in the world to how
you see the world.
You don't have all
the answers either.
I don't have all
My answers might be totally
inappropriate for that person.
And I have to make some
peace with that instead
of trying to convince them that
I have found the one true way.
I need to be open, curious,
accepting, and light hearted
about who they are as a person
and try and see their heart.
They might have something
wonderful and amazing
to teach me.
I would just shut up and listen.
And sometimes you just
want to shut up and listen.
And that's a great thing
to learn how to do.
>> What would I do if I was
simply dropped on the planet
again, and I had
nothing to prove?
I had nothing to get.
I had nothing to experience.
I was just here
on a bonus round.
This was a bonus life.
And I changed everything.
That was when I basically
said, all that's left to do
is to give.
I mean, what's left but
to go out and serve.
That's all you can do.
And from that moment onwards,
I shifted my whole thinking.
And everything that I
did was about service.
It was about giving.
It wasn't about
chasing anything.
There was no need to prove
yourself or to do anything.
And I remind myself
every day when I wake up.
This is a bonus life.
>> Abundance is really about
being able to help more people.
And I know that sounds
kind of goody two shoes,
but there is a charge you get.
There's an energy charge you
get when you help someone out.
There's nothing I found in
terms of stuff or comforts
that can match that charge.
But you have to
discover it for yourself
because when you read
about it or hear about it,
you don't get it.
You don't get how
amazing you can be.
>> If we begin to shift our
own mindset towards abundance
and towards thinking not
about how we're limited,
not about how our lives
are mired in scarcity--
if we start going to, how
can I be abundant right?
Now what do I have to give?
What do I have to offer?
Can I plant a tree?
Can I start a community garden?
Can I offer comfort to
someone who needs it?
Can I give kindness?
Can I be present to someone
who is in pain emotionally
or physically--
if we start to go to
those types of abundance
that we can access, then
that's a place to start.
We can't change the world
until we change the way that we
interact with the world.
But changing the way we
interact with the world
can change the world.
>> There isn't a bigger gift
in the world than being able
to touch somebody's life
with something that you say
or something that you've
discovered that you can share
with them that helps them
transform their lives.
To know that you had a little,
itty-bitty piece of that
is the biggest
blessing in the world.
It's probably the biggest
addiction I have--
is to somehow touch the
lives of as many people
as I can in a positive
way so that their life is
a little bit easier, more
fun, more loving, more
joyful for them.
>> One of the most amazing
things of moving into abundance
and the abundance that is in
my life is what it allows me
to contribute to the world.
This is really for me.
And everyone's got
different drivers.
But I know enough
about myself where
the thing that really
drives me is making
an impact, a positive impact.
And specifically for me,
I help entrepreneurs.
And I think entrepreneurs--
I help them build
their businesses.
And I think entrepreneurs are
the people that are really
creating mass abundance.
They're the ones that
are creating progress.
And they're the ones
that are creating jobs.
that are creating wealth.
They're the great
magnifiers in this world.
And I get to focus
on helping them.
And of course, it
builds my business.
And it brings more
material abundance for me.
So that's wonderful.
It's just great.
But being able to make that
impact and being able to
wake up in the morning
thinking about that impact
and how to leverage that
impact and make it greater
and how to take it even beyond
building businesses, but just
building just more
positive impact-- it could
be digging wells in Africa.
It could take any
number of forms.
It could be helping nonprofits.
But the idea that
I am able to focus
on helping people leverage their
positive impact is just-- it's
like a dream come true.
It's absolutely a
dream come true.